Welcome to my new series of speedy AI
updates. This morning, May 29th, Deepc
officially announced the release of Deep
Seek Gar 1 V2, even though they have
already published the weights yesterday.
In what seems like an official Chinese
announcement, they called this a minor
upgrade. But in the official Twitter
announcement, they included their
official benchmark on top eels against
top models, and no parts of it looks
minor at all. They stated that there are
improvements on front-end capabilities,
reduction in hallucinations, and now
fully support JSON output and function
calling. Without boring you out
analyzing the benchmark, we are seeing
around 20% increase in performance from
R1 V1 to R1 V2. with R1 V2 aka052A now
outperforming the newest Gemini Pro0506
50% of the time and just lagging
slightly behind open AIS03. Their Ader
leaderboard score is also on par with
Claude 4 with and without thinking since
this R1 V2 is open weights and was
released yesterday. A lot of thirdparty
benchmarks have already had the chance
to evaluate it for artificial analysis.
R1 V2 now ranks as the third best model
right behind O3 and04 Mini for EQbench
that measures creative writing. It
actually performs worse than the
previous R1 and the new
SV30324. For a Gentech toy use, it
performs decently better than Gemini 2.5
Pro on one benchmark, but is still
behind clock for NGBT40. For the coding
physics test, it does have a decent
improvement, but still looks weird. My
initial VIP test tells me that it loves
structured output like nested bullet
points, similar to Gemini, but doesn't
write as many paragraphs, which
resembles 03. Its thinking process may
be a bit questionable, but it still
performs decently on basic logical
questions. The generation speed is still
pretty slow on their official website,
and I don't think their context window
has increased. Meanwhile, they also
distilled a train of thought reasoning
process from R1 v2 to post train 3AB
based model just like what they did
initially when R1 came out. This model
achieves state-of-the-art performance
for open source models on the AME 2024
benchmark, surpassing Quinn 3AB by 10%
and matching the performance of Quen 3
235B thinking, which is basically the
second best open- source model right
now. While the distilled model is still
behind on coding or scientific facts, it
is still a pretty insane performance
boost, especially for an AB model. You
can now download both the original model
and the distilled Quin 3 model on a
hugging phase. And you can also try R1
V2 now on their official website. So
yeah, that's it for this video. Let me
know if you like this kind of format. If
you want to stay uptodate on AI
research, check out my newsletter.